18 Class And Object Theory

#1
Java is Object- Oriented Programming:-
In the real world, everything is an object like a pen, mouse, glass, etc.
Every object has two things:
An object knows something ( It has some properties)
An object does something( It has a behaviour)
Every object has a property and behaviour. It can also have multiple properties as well as multiple behaviours.
To create an object, first, we need to create a class.
Class act as a blueprint that contains the designing of an object.

#2
JVM creates objects in Java.
JVM creates an object but it requires a blueprint(class).

Thus, you create a class file that class file gets compiled to create a byte code and that byte code goes to the JVM and then JVM creates an object.

---------------------------------------------------------------

19 Class and Object Practical

Here we will learn:
Class in Java
Syntax of class in Java
Creation of objects in Java
Methods in Java

#1
Whatever we do in Java, we do it in a class.
A class is a user-defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.
In a class, we have methods and variables.
Class will be created in the same java file.
We can create any number of classes in a program.
Class does not occupy memory.
Syntax of a class:-
 class classname
 {
  methods, variables
 }

#2
Every object has two things: properties and methods.
When an object of a class is created, the class is said to be instantiated. All the instances share the attributes and the behavior of the class. 
Action will be done with the help of methods.
We need to specify the access to methods. We will specify it as public if we want it to be called from anywhere else.
If we want the method to return any value then we need to specify its return type like int for Integer type values.
As Java is a statically typed language so you have to specify the return type in it.

Syntax of method:-
= access modifier return type method name()
 public int add()
 {
  statement;
 }

#3
We need an object to call a method from a different class.
Creating an object:-
 classname reference variable= new classname();
reference variable is used to tell that this variable is made to establish a reference between a class.
new keyword is used to tell that we have to utilise the space for an object.

We can call a method by using the reference variable of the object. 
We have to pass the values if we want some operations to be on them.
We also have to accept values in a method as well if we pass some values. For this, we have to specify parameters in a method based on the type of passed values.


-----------------------------------------------------------------
20 JDK JRE JVM in Java

Here we will learn:
What is JVM?
What is JDK?
What is JRE?
Importance and uses of JVM, JRE, and JDK.

#1
To compile the Java code, we need a tool and that tool is known as JDK ( Java Development Kit).
Byte code runs on a machine so we have to convert the java code into the byte code.
On installing the JDK, we get both updated JRE and JVM.

#2
JVM stands for Java Virtually Machine.
JVM is the space where you execute the code.
JVM is used to make the Java language a platform- independent.
You have to compile the code through JDK and then run the code through JVM.
JVM is platform dependent and it needs to be built for a particular OS.
JVM is platform-dependent.

#3
JRE stands for Java Runtime Environment.
JRE contains all the in-built classes and other extra files and libraries that we can use in our code.
JRE validates the byte code.
JRE loads a class.
If you use extra libraries, and you also need an environment. An additional layer is present above the OS known as JRE.

#4
JVM is a part of JRE. JRE includes JVM and libraries.
 JVM - Java Virutal Machine
 JRE - Java Runtime Environment
For development purposes, you need to install JDK (Java Development Kit) which consists of JRE and JVM.

---------------------------------------------------------------
21 Methods in Java

Here we will learn:
Method in Java
Use of methods in Java
Main method in Java
return type in methods
Syntax of method

#1
A method in Java or Java Method is a collection of statements that perform some specific task and return the result to the caller.
Methods in Java allow us to reuse the code without retyping code.
In Java, we create the components with the help of classes.
Every class has a behavior and it is defined through the method.
Behaviour or method is defined with the round brackets ().
For every method, we also have to specify the type of access to it.
Method does some tasks and it also returns something.
We can call methods by creating an object.
We can pass also pass values in a method.
We can also put conditions inside the method like with the help of if..else.
return keyword stops the execution of a method as it does not execute the further statements after it.

#2
-- void is used when we do not want a method to return something.
-- String is used to return a string value.
-- int is used to return an integer value.

Main method is the start of execution from where the program begins. 

#3
The syntax for method:-
class Computer
{
 public void playMusic()
 {
  System.out.println("Music Playing..");
 }
}










